---
layout: post
title: 7 billion
word_count: 1327
read_time: 7
---


If you aren’t aware that the world’s population hit 7 billion people on October 31 2011, I don’t know what you’ve been doing or where you’ve been for the last few days. But chances are you’ve heard about it unless you’re stranded in a desert or lonely island somewhere and only have access to this blog. And if that’s the case, then I just told you that it has hit 7 billion people and you should believe me (and I also want to meet you someday because I admire your respect for me). So either way, you should realize it’s a big milestone. Milestones can be good or bad, but I’d like to assume they’re good. People who like to believe that Earth is creating too many babies too soon should also consider that it’s part of human nature to reproduce. After all, what matters most are the people. As an Earthling, I can say that nothing is more paramount than our species. Not Mars, not robots, not the time-space continuum, not Tigers, and not even Mother Nature.

Now, that might piss a lot of you off. Sure, go ahead and call me a solipsist but I think we as a society are inherently solipsist. It’s not just me. We care the most about ourselves than anything else, and it won’t change, at least not anytime soon – we’re just hard-coded that way, get over it. Of course, don’t get me wrong, I don’t encourage producing kids if you can’t afford to sustainably provide them a decent education and a lifestyle that you’d like them to have. So, I feel sort of significant and insignificant at the same time. Significant because I was alive when the population was less than 6 billion, and I’m still alive when we have surpassed 7 billion – and there’s only about 6,999,999,999 others. I mean, think about what it’s going to be like a thousand years from now. So much bad shit is going to happen – I just feel lucky that I can be safe and sound, and I can have the freedom to do whatever I want in life. That makes me feel like a significant dweller of this era which has, in fact, spanned two millennia. I feel insignificant because (now the irony will be thick here) there’s fucking 6.9 billion of you – I am essentially a speck of dust to anyone who’s creeping our planet from somewhere far away in our galaxy (btw, if you are that person on that planet, you should totally add me on Facebook, or whatever you guys call it over there). The thought of me being so tiny in the big picture of things is just depressing. Though, I have the perfect song that makes me feel better.

But, anyway, I didn’t write this post to convey my emotional misgivings about our planet reaching 7 billion people. Fuck that. I wrote it because I would like to highlight what this means for entrepreneurs, hackers and people who design stuff for, well, other people (and themselves …hey, check this out, I’m not all talks).

7 billion people means 7 billion potential users if you build consumer products. Of course that’s not a reality right now, but one day it will be. Out of those 7 billion potential users, 36.3% live in India and China. A whopping 36.3%! That means, you need to have some sort of product strategy for these emerging markets. And the biggest mistake that entrepreneurs make is to think that emerging markets are exactly the same as Western markets. They’re not. I think Groupon’s failure in China is the best example how products just fail if you don’t build a strategy that is geared exclusively towards an emerging market. It also can’t be the same strategy for India and China – they have to be two different ones, though, they will be similar in many respects. So, how do you do it?

- Understand the culture of the emerging country really well. I can’t stress this enough. Go back to its roots, learn the history, learn what motivates people, what are their most important values, what are the aspirations and so on. Master the culture.
- Then demographically categorize your knowledge obtained from the above. Figure out the differences between people in villages, people in cities, young people, old people etc.
- Determine the core values of your product, and put them in a list – call it List A. Preserve these values from this point on. Put the rest not-so-core ones on another list – call it List B.
- Study products that entered the market and failed. Two good examples are Gaopeng (name Groupon operated under in China) and Barbie. Barbie was a complete failure in China. They had opened a flamboyant six-story, $30 million store in downtown Shanghai that saw a lot of visitors, but never sold any barbie dolls. Carefully study what caused such high profile entries to fail.
- Only after you’ve done 1-4, figure out how to translate your product into a Chinese or Indian version. Don’t change the core values from List A in #3. Localize everything in your List B from #3. I’m not just talking about the language. Truly localize your product. Some major consumer brands such as Pizza Hut and McDonald’s have nailed it by Indianizing their products. McAloo Tikki Burger and Paneer Pizza, anyone?
- When you have a decent strategy to penetrate these markets with your new, localized product, start thinking about a separate marketing strategy. But remember that a great, localized marketing strategy won’t make a shitty product successful. Great products will tend to market themselves. This is how Apple and a dozen other companies, including Dropbox and 37Signals, became so successful. They built such great products that they didn’t need to spend a great deal much on marketing. Definitely don’t spend too much on marketing at the start. If you spend too much on marketing at first and the initial version of a product fails, those initial users will never come back. I personally believe iteration is how products, especially software, should be built. Ambitious marketing campaigns come later when you’re a trusted brand among a subset of the society.
- It is important to only focus on one market first. Don’t try to do China and India both at once, because if you fail miserably, you’ll lose a second chance. If you only do one, you’ll have a spare life to apply all the things you learned from your failure. If you don’t understand this concept, go play some video games like Mario or Zelda. You’ll know what I mean.


So, the secret to success is really embracing the culture of the emerging market, and then creating a localized version of your product. It’s a given that you need to spend a lot of time in the country, blend with the people, make some friends, and speak the language. And definitely don’t forget to hire local people to run your business. Multinational companies who enter India or China and don’t hire Indian or Chinese executives who are currently living in India or China to run the subsidiary are doomed for failure. You might think you’re really know the culture well and you get it (especially if you have a Stanford MBA or something), but that doesn’t mean you’ll be successful in those markets. It’s important to hire seasoned, local executives who have led successful companies since they know their economy the best.

Now, I hope one day I can test out these theories on some product I build and see how they fare in an actual emerging market setting, which will most likely be India. Till then, I’ll believe in whatever I said above because I think I’ve got it figured out.

(This was part 1 in this series. Part 2 will go over what 7 billion means in terms of usability. Fun, fun. But I’ll write that on some other day.)
